Sirman, we are in a series this year called I Love to Tell the Story.
Why is it important that we love to tell stories?
Because it is the foundation, it is the crux of sharing Jesus.
We are called to go into all of the world making disciples.
How do we do that?
We do that by telling the story of Jesus, making disciples.
teaching them everything that I have commanded you.
Everything.
Well, to learn everything, that means we've got to be versed in Scripture.
So what we are doing this year is we are simply going through stories of the Bible.
things to draw from.
As we are witnessing, we have these stories to hear.
They are in our hearts.
They are in our minds.
They are part of what we are doing.
And so we learn the story so that we have an arsenal with which to tell others about you.
So imagine this, if you will.
Imagine you have a best friend, then buddies,
been girlfriends for forever.
You've told each other all kinds of things.
But this particular friend betrays you.
Not one time, not twice, but repeatedly.
You share personal things
with them and they go and they share it out with everybody else and then you confront them and it's like, no, no, no, it was just, I'm so sorry, I won't do it again and it happens again when you share the next thing and it happens again and over and over again.
They lie to you, they take advantage of you and ultimately they walk away when you need the most.
They're never there for you.
Would you still love that person?
Would you still chase after them?
Would you still welcome them back?
Like our song, would you still fight for them?
No matter what they did, no matter what the situation, no matter the betrayal, the lie, the walking away and all of those things, most of us in our humanness would say absolutely no way.
Why?
Because human love has limits, yes?
At some point, people have to be responsible for their actions.
But what if I told you, as we sang about, that God's love doesn't have the limits that ours does?
What if I told you that no matter how unfaithful we are, no matter how many times we run, no matter how deeply we've rejected Him, He still
comes for us.
Today we're going to dive into probably one of the most powerful love stories in the Bible.
It's a relentless love.
And it's the story of Jose, Josea, and Gomer.
See the Mexican came out at me, I said Jose.
Of Jose.
and go, I'm probably, now that I messed up, I'm gonna probably do that multiple times, just know who I'm talking about, okay?
This is the Spanish version.
See, this isn't just a fairy tale.
It's messy.
The story of Hosea and Gomer is, it's painful, it's hurtful, but it's real, it's reality.
This is the greatest reality show never filmed.
But it shows just how relentless
God's love is for us.
Look at what Paul says.
I mean, this isn't even the point, but look what Paul says about God's love for us in the book of Romans.
We've seen this a bazillion times, but God showed his great love for us, relentless love for us by sending Christ to die for us while we were still sinners.
While you were messed up, while you were not where you were supposed to be, while you were still doing all those things that you pray nobody finds out about, all those things that you hope that God just forgives and forgets because you really don't want any of that to be known.
That God still came and He sent Christ to die for us.
So today for us we're going to look at how God's love is unconditional
how it is relentless, but ultimately how it is redeeming and what that means for us today.
So the first thing we're gonna look at today as we take notes, if you're a note taker, is that God's love is unconditional.
So if you have your Bibles, we're actually gonna spend most all of our time in the book of Hosea chapter three.
So you can just kind of open up your Bible there and just kind of keep it open, keep your finger.
In Hosea chapter three, that's where we're going to spend our time.
Today, of course, it'll be on the screen for those that like the digital technology stuff.
Hosea chapter three, and we're gonna start at verse one.
It says, this will illustrate that the Lord still loves Israel, even though the people have turned to other gods and love to worship them.
See, Hosea was a prophet.
He was called to preach God's truth to Israel, but God didn't just give him words.
Most all of the rest of the prophets, God gave words to speak and they went and in our modern day, they prophesied or they preached or they taught, whatever it may be, they exhorted people with the prophecy that God gave them.
But Hosea was a little bit different.
He didn't just give him words, he gave him
a life lesson, if you will, a task that had to be accomplished.
God told Hosea to marry Gomer, a woman who would be unfaithful to him.
Not once, but over and over again, Gomer ran from Hosea, chasing every other lover's, breaking his heart.
And over and over again, God told Hosea, go after her.
Love her again.
God commands him.
You gotta understand, this is an unusual thing because within the society in the day, an unfaithful woman had a very different consequence and it wasn't very pleasant.
But God tells her, run after like a mother running for a little one.
Kidding, she's having fun.
So here's the truth.
God's love isn't based on our performance.
He doesn't love us more when we're good and he doesn't love us less when we fail.
He loves us because he is love.
Students, this is important because the enemy wants to lie to you.
The enemy wants to tell you that God can't love you because of
Whatever insert you want to put in there, whatever it is you're struggling with, whatever it is you're dealing with, the enemy is telling you in your ear, God can't love you.
God won't love you until you clean your stuff up.
God won't love you until you do this, this or that.
And that is the absolute biggest lie that the enemy can whisper in your ear.
He loves you.
because He is love.
He is the definition.
He is the epitome.
He is the creation.
He is the Alpha, the Omega, the beginning and the end of all things love.
And so He will love you no matter what the situation is.
Now, like a good father, there may come discipline.
I didn't get any amends on that, but that's okay.
It's still truth.
But he loves you because he is love.
Because I would bet that somebody within the sound of my voice has felt that they have gone too far for God's love.
They've roamed out too much.
They've done too many bad things that God could never love them.
Can I tell you you've not gone too far?
Because he says that his love for you is as far as the east is from the west.
There is nowhere that you can run east.
There is nowhere you can run west.
There is nowhere you can run north or south or any direction in between that God's love will not follow you.
I know that there are people within the sound of my voice that are carrying shame from past mistakes, things that you did in the past.
And again, you're really hoping that nobody knows.
You're really hoping it just kind of falls away.
But the enemy, because he's the enemy, tries to whisper in your ear all of the time.
And he reminds you of all of those things that you've done wrong.
Like God's love is from the East, it's from the West.
God's forgetfulness when you become a child of God is as far as the east is from the west.
He's not holding that against you.
If you have given your heart and life to Jesus Christ, your old man is gone.
The old things that you used to do are no longer counted against you.
students you have in your classrooms, most of you in modern day.
When it was my age and some of us young, older, it was a chalkboard.
Now, a chalkboard's not a really good example because you'd write something on the chalkboard and then you take the eraser and they'd erase it.
But there was always that white powder left, right?
There was always residue left.
The great thing about a whiteboard is it makes this illustration a whole lot more relevant.
A whiteboard, see, before you came to Christ, your sins were being counted against you.
And then when you became a new creature, they were wiped off and there's nothing left.
It never existed.
A hundred years from now, nobody will know what was written on that whiteboard.
Nobody will know what was listed.
And when you stand before the Father as a new creature, there is now no condemnation.
There is no list of sins.
He's not going to go, well, now you know when you were 14 and you did that one thing and you're like, yeah, no, that doesn't happen.
God's not holding anything against you.
Because here's the thing that we get wrong.
In our humanness, we typically, right or wrong, our love is transactional.
I love you because you love me.
I'll love you if you do this.
You love me if I provide this and things happen and life gets messy.
But God's love isn't transactional.
He's not expecting you to do anything.
He loves you anyway.
He does expect you to accept him as Lord and Savior.
That might be the only caveat I would give, but he is love.
He loves you and he loves you unconditionally.
All he's asking you to do is to come to him.
So this week, again, I'm going to ask, we really haven't seen anybody write any testimonies in the testimony book, and I hope that you will do that.
Let's not make an opportunity
to leave stories for the next generation of Bereans.
Let's not let that end up being an empty book.
But we also talked about the love tree or this love tree that we're representing.
I want you to think about a person in your life who needs to be reminded of God's unconditional love.
I want you just, if nothing else, just put their name on it.
as a symbol of God's love for them.
Who in your life needs grace instead of judgment?
Who in your life needs to see the expression of God's love rather than the reminder of the enemy's condemnation?
Second thing I want us to look at in this story of Hosea and Gomer
If you'll have your Bibles look at verse two now, Hosea chapter three and verse two, is that God's love is relentless.
We call the moment ago we use the word reckless in the song.
And that's not my favorite word for that.
I think relentless is a little bit better of a word, but the idea is still the same.
This is what Hosea chapter three and verse two says.
It says, so I brought her back.
I bought her back for 15 pieces of silver and five bushels of barley and a measure of wine.
See, this moment is powerful.
Gomorrah had hit rock bottom.
She wasn't just lost.
She was at this point, she had become enslaved.
And instead of walking away, Hosea paid the price to bring her back.
Think about that for a second.
She betrayed him.
Not the first time, not the second.
She ran away from him.
And yet, Hosea rescued her at great personal cost to himself.
He was willing to buy her back, to buy back an unfaithful, ungrateful,
mate because God had told him to.
We talk about truth.
See, this is exactly what Jesus did for us.
We were, before we came to Christ, we were slaves to sin.
We ran from God.
We denied him.
We rejected him.
But instead of leaving us in our brokenness,
Jesus paid the ultimate price to bring us back to himself.
Jesus has paid the price for you.
It's already been paid.
You go, I'm not worth it.
He doesn't need to do that.
It's already done.
It's already been complete.
All you have to do is say, hey, somebody's already paid my ticket.
I want to get on.
I want to have that life.
I want to be a child of God because the ticket, the price, the sin has already been wiped away.
Who in your life do you know that keeps running away from God?
Parents, is it a child?
Children, is it a parent?
Is it a friend?
This is going to be hard to tell the story, but you've already heard it, so hopefully I'll be able to move through it.
My mom growing up, you know, was a drug addict.
The entirety of my life, I went to live with my grandmother at four years old.
So grandma's, you're important.
I went to live with her when I was four.
And for the entirety of my childhood, my mom would show up,
and disappear, show up and disappear.
And we would, she would be, be there and honey, we're going to have a life together where I'm going to get a house.
We're going to live together, blah, blah, blah.
All of those things.
And then all of a sudden I'd pick up the phone and hello, you have a call from the California Correctional Institute for Women.
Do you accept the collect charges?
Oh, well, at least I know where she is now.
She's in prison.
Then it would be a year, two years, three years.
But at least I knew where she was.
And that was the entirety of my childhood and into my young adult years.
Even after I had children, she still struggled.
And then there came a break.
And she turned her life over to the Lord.
And then not too long after that, and there was still some struggle, but she
I believe genuinely was a child of God and gave her heart and life to Lord.
And again, as most of you know, not too long after that, her liver gave out and she went home to be with the Lord.
That wouldn't have happened.
I do not believe had we not continued to pray, had we not continued to love her in the love of Christ.
So don't give up.
If you have somebody in your life that you're not seeing the fruit, don't stop praying.
But pastor, it's been years, it's been decades.
I know, I understand.
I lived it.
Keep praying.
Keep loving them.
Keep pushing.
Keep pressing.
Don't grow weary in doing good for in the proper time.
If you don't give up, you will reap a harvest.
And it was into my 30s that my mother made a proper change, gave her heart and life to the Lord, and then went to live with him for eternity.
For somebody in this room, somebody within the sound of my voice, maybe you're the one that's running.
Maybe you're the one that's just pushing away and ignoring God.
And he's shouting, or maybe he's simply whispering that I love you no matter what, and there's nothing you can do that will ever stop me from loving you.
There is nowhere you can go that I won't know where you are and that my hand of protection won't be over you.
God is still pursuing you.
You, not just somebody else, you.
He can pursue you individually, independently while He is pursuing everybody else on the planet.
That's what makes Him God.
And He is still pursuing you.
And so my challenge to you today is to listen to the still small voice of the Holy Spirit who is saying, I love you.
I will never leave you and I will never forsake you.
I will be with you always low, even to the end of the age.
Point number three, God's love is redeeming.
Let's go to Hosea chapter three, look at verses three through five.
It says, then I said to her, you must live in my house for many days and stop your prostitution.
During this time you will not have sexual relations with anyone, not even me.
This shows that Israel will go a long time without a king or a prince and without sacrifices, sacred pillars, priests or even idols.
But afterward, the people will return and devote themselves to the Lord their God and to David's descendant, their king.
In the last days, they will tremble in awe of the Lord and of his goodness.
You see, Hosea didn't just bring Gomer back.
He didn't just say, okay, come back home.
He put her back into position.
He restored her.
He didn't throw her past interface.
He didn't continue to point his finger down his nose.
He didn't continue to bring it up every time they were gonna be together.
He simply gave her a new life.
And that's the truth that we have for us today.
When Jesus saves us, He doesn't just forgive us,
He restores us.
He makes whole that which was broken.
He makes complete that which was at one time incomplete.
He gives us a new identity.
That's why baptism is so important.
When we talk about being baptized,
Is there any power in it?
No.
It is a symbolic act, but it is as important nonetheless because it is an acknowledgement on my part.
It's not for you.
We do it publicly, but it is an acknowledgement on my part that God
The Creator of the universe has given me a new identity that the old man is buried, the old person, the sinful Mike that once was, that once existed is now gone and dead and buried under.
And the new man, the new identity, the new life in Christ that He has given me, the new clothes, the ring, the garment that He puts on the prodigal son that has come home is fresh.
and clean and that there's a new name written down in heaven and it's mine.
He restores us.
And if you haven't been baptized, I want to encourage you with every bit of my heart to make that proclamation that I am a new creature in Christ.
God's not just about saving us from sin.
He's about restoring us to wholeness.
So there's people who are struggling with some horrific background.
There are some of you in this room that if I were to ask you your story, you would recant stories of just things that I can't even imagine.
But when God comes in, it doesn't necessarily mean that they're forgotten by you, but that He makes you whole again.
He makes you new.
He takes your past and He redeems it.
And He loves you and He makes you complete.
Again,
asking these questions, these challenges, because I want you to know and I want you to take what we're hearing and studying today and over this next year.
And I want you to think about people in your life, who in your life needs redemption?
Who in your life needs restoration?
Who in your life feels that they are too broken for God's love?
Who in your life needs to see God
love shown to them in a very real way.
As we continue, not only the stories of testimony, but our love tree, I want us to put these names on there so that when we pray and we might not pray for each one name individual,
but we pray for them collectively that God, these names that have been written down on a heart that have been written down on this and attached.
Father, would they see your love today?
Is there magic in this?
Of course not.
But it is simply a step saying, I'm going to stand in the gap as a long term
way, not just as a one time at the altar, but I'm going to place their name here so that as we pray throughout the year, these names are standing in gap for the person who needs to know that God loves them.
Because as we add what we call the creative element or the part that we're adding to our service each month as we go through our themes, they're going to stay up for the entirety of this year's series.
so that at the end of the year, when you walk in and you sit down and you look at the platform, you go, oh my goodness, look at all of the stories that God has told.
Look at all of the ways that I can share Jesus, I can share His love, I can tell a testimony, I can, and I'm not gonna give away the other parts, but whatever it may be around the sanctuary.
Let them stand.
Let those cards stand in the gap.
So as we close, Hosea's love for Gomer is a mirror of God's love for us.
He pursues us when we run.
He loves us even when we're unfaithful.
And he redeems us
when we're broken and messed up.
Today I want us to respond a little bit differently than we typically do on a Sunday morning.
Today I want us to reflect how have you experienced God's redolentless love?
And if you have a story, come write it in the book.
I want us to respond
by placing a note on the love tree, not just for ourselves, but again, a name that needs to hear Jesus' love, that we will be praying for throughout this year.
And I want us to respond by reaching out.
And I want us to show someone God's love in a real, practical way this week.
When you leave here, how can you express God's love, that same unfailing, unrelenting, unconditional love that you have been granted?
How can you express that to somebody else this week?
So I know that
I give you challenges, and unfortunately, I don't always see the result of those challenges.
But I pray that you're doing them.
They're not rhetorical.
Might I encourage you?
When I give you these challenges from the pulpit, I'm not just giving you a rhetorical or a ethereal challenge.
You know, oh, well, that's a nice challenge, pastor.
No, I'm actually asking you, will you please go do this?
because I'm just one person, but we are the body of Christ.
And together, we are a formidable foe against the darkness that the enemy wants to press in on this city.
12 people change their known world for Jesus.
How many can 45 or 50 or 65 or 85 do for the city of St. Louis?
But we won't do it if you don't take the challenges to heart.
So here's my invitation for those that need to accept Jesus.
See, God's not just waiting for you to be good enough.
He's already chosen you.
He's already paid the price.
He already loves you.
He's just asking if you'll receive it.
And for those of us that have already received it, He's just asking if you'll share it.
Will you?
Before we go into our last prayer, we'll end with the same verse that we started with.
The God showed his great love for us by sending Christ to die for us while we were still sinners.
And he's sending Christ to die for the people that you need to share with this week while they're still sinners.
But he still has to have somebody go and tell them about Jesus.
Let's pray.
So Father we praise you and we thank you because you are God and you love us no matter what.
Father I pray in the name of Jesus that you would grant to us names to place
before your throne.
Names that need to be prayed over this year because they need to see Jesus this year.
Father, if there's anybody within the sound of my voice that needs to accept you because they have felt like they are too far gone, Lord, I pray that you would grant them the courage to step out
Let us pray with them and give them some next steps as to what it is to be a Christian and to feel and experience the relentless, unconditional love of the Father.
We praise you and we thank you.
It is in the name of Jesus we pray.
The altars are open, if you would like to pray.